==================================================================
Coursera Data Cleaning Course Project
Version 1.0
==================================================================

## Original Experiment description
The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 

The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain. See 'features_info.txt' for more details. 

### For each record it is provided:

- Triaxial acceleration from the accelerometer (total acceleration) and the estimated body acceleration.
- Triaxial Angular velocity from the gyroscope. 
- A 561-feature vector with time and frequency domain variables. 
- Its activity label. 
- An identifier of the subject who carried out the experiment.


### Notes: 

- Features are normalized and bounded within [-1,1].

For more information about this dataset contact: activityrecognition@smartlab.ws

## Script run_analysis.R description

### Function SamsungMerge
Get the data and construct the merged train and test tbdl_df from the Samsung Experiment. This function ask the user of the script the directory in which he would like to see the data from the Samsung Experiment downloaded.

- Returns : train and test data merged in one table

### Function SamsungSelect
Select only the wanted data from the Samsung Experiment, namely : std and mean related values. In the process, also acquire the column names from the data set and insert it in the table

- Args : Concatenated table of all the experiment data. For example the table returned by SamsungMerge function

- Returns : Table of the wanted values only with properly named columns

### Function SamsungLabelActivity
Transform activity code into activity label in the table generated by SamsungSelect function.

- Args : Table from SamsungSelect

- Returns : Table with activity variable containing activity label instead of activity codeA

### Function Main
Call all the previous functions, then compute the mean of all the features in the table generated by SamsungLabelActivity grouped by activities and subject identifier. Write the result into a file in the user specified download directory (in SamsungMerge function) named activities_avg.csv.

## Output Description
The output file contains a table of 180 (6 activities for 30 subjects) and 81 variables (activity, subject, 79 features about mean and standard deviation of each original variables). The 79 features of this table have been calculated using the mean function on the grouped by activity and subject original experiment features. As such, they take the form of their corresponding variables in the original dataset.
